---
title: "Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)"
description: "A collection of the questions I'm asked most and my answers to them."
draft: false
toc: true
---

## Who Are You?

I'm Adam Thompson, a software/reverse engineer and security researcher currently based in Denver, Colorado. You can read more about me on [my about page](/about).

## What is this Site?

This is my personal, non-commercial website where I share my (mis)adventures in technology and related pursuits. On this [blog](/blog), I share my software and hardware projects, collect information that I largely want for my own reference, and post write-ups about subjects that I just find interesting. 

## Where Else Can I Find You

For better or worse, you can find me all over the internet. Other than this site, you may be interested in checking out [my photography](https://adamthompsonphoto.com) or my [photography and outdoor adventure blog](https://blog.adamthompsonphoto.com). I'm currently also on all of the major social networks, though we'll see how long that statement continues to be true as my disdain for "Big Tech" continues to grow.

## Can I Trust the Information that I Find on this Site?

Nope. You should never trust any single piece of information that you come across. I publish things here with the hope that they'll be useful/interesting for others, but you should always do your own research and verification of any information that you come across online. This is especially true in the age of sponsored content, AI slop, and large-scale disinformation campaigns. 

## Is This Site Written By AI

Absolutely not. This site is written purely by me, Adam Thompson, and, at least as far as I'm aware, I'm a human being. 

## Does this Site Have Corporate Sponsors or Affiliate Links?

No. This website is not sponsored by anyone, and, at this time, I do not have any affiliate links on this site.

## Why Does This Site Look Like This?

Simple. Because [it's a motherfucking website](https://motherfuckingwebsite.com/). The goal of this site is for me to be able to transmit information to you in the most efficient way possible. No flashy animations, no unnecessary JavaScript. Just a pure, simple website.

My goal is for the JavaScript on this site to be as minimal as possible while still accomplishing the overarching goals of the site. Currently, this site makes use of the following scripts:

- [lunar.js](https://lunrjs.com/) (along with a small bit of supporting JavaScript) to add the search functionality to this Hugo site.
- [KaTeX](https://katex.org/) for rendering the math typesetting on this site.
- [Plausible Analytics](https://plausible.io/) for providing me some insight into the traffic I get on this site. I'm currently in the process of evaluating if I want to keep Plausible installed on this site, use some alternative, or just forego the analytics altogether.

## Where is this Site Hosted?

Currently, this is a completely static website that is hosted by [Cloudflare Pages](https://pages.cloudflare.com/). There's a lot that I could say about Cloudflare, but I'll save that for a future blog post. Suffice it to say that I intend to move this site off of Cloudflare's infrastructure if I ever get bored enough to be bothered to do it.

## Is This a WordPress Site?

Nope. This website is statically generated by [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/). You can stop scanning this site for WordPress vulnerabilities now ;)

## So There's No wp-admin?

;)

## What's the Hugo Theme?

The design of this site is a fork of the [Hugo Dead Simple Theme](https://github.com/barklan/hugo-dead-simple). My fork has a bunch of my own enhancements and, over time, the theme is drifting further and further from the original theme that it's based off of. If you're interested in seeing a log of changes, you can see the [site changelog](/changelog) page. I've been maintaining the changelog since October of 2025. 